Good morning, I’m Christian Zago.
I would like to briefly introduce you
this very particular wine.
Some preliminary remarks:
Ca’ dei Zago is a family business farm that, since 1924,
lives and works farming a vineyard
of 6 hectares in Valdobbiadene.
Today with  biodynamic methods.
Since 1958, we exclusively produce this kind of wine.
Prosecco Col Fondo is a sparkling wine
produced through the fermentation in the bottle.
And this is quite normal.
So let’s see the peculiarity:
At the end of this process,
the yeast is not amassed in the bottle’s neck,
freezed and removed, but it stays in the bottle.
The bottles are put in a vertical position
so that the yeast can slowly sediment
at the bottom of the bottle.
And this is how Prosecco Col Fondo is produced.
There is no degorgement of the wine,
so we never open the bottles
or do any corrections and the wine
comes to you as it was born.
Completely dry, without any residual sugar
and with very low sulfites:
all information you will find,
together with the bottling date, on the back label.
For this kind of Prosecco,
the presence of a light turbidity in the glass
should not be considered as an imperfection,
but as a typical feature.
Another important thing is that
the wine is characterized by a great longevity,
since we work in the winery in order
to maintain the natural balance that was created in the vineyard.
It represents the tradition of my village, Valdobbiadene:
before the coming of the modern fermentation technology,
Prosecco was simply as is, col fondo.
Thank you!